Simplify anonymous access & embedding docs. (#90409)
elastic/kibana: docs/setup/embedding.asciidoc

[[embedding]]
== Embedding {kib}

> You can embed a {kib} dashboard or visualization using an HTML code snippet generated with the *Copy iFrame code* button in *Share > Embed code* menu in *Dashboard* or *Visualize*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can embed a {kib} dashboard or visualization using an HTML code snippet generated with the *Copy iFrame code* button in the *Share > Embed code* menu in *Dashboard* or *Visualize*.
```

> You can embed a {kib} dashboard or visualization using an HTML code snippet generated with the *Copy iFrame code* button in *Share > Embed code* menu in *Dashboard* or *Visualize*.

Reviewer: It would be good to provide some information about why you would want to embed a Kibana dashboard or visualization.  Can you also embed saved searches?

Author: > It would be good to provide some information about why you would want to embed a Kibana dashboard or visualization.

Sure, let me think how to phrase that properly.

> Can you also embed saved searches?

Technically you can embed anything. You just create an iframe and put any Kibana URL there assuming it works for your use case and you don't mind the risk of breaking it in any release.

I'd say we want to encourage our users to embed only what we officially support and provide advanced sharing controls for. But we also know that some users will still embed Kibana in very surprising ways. These are the users we're targeting in the section with `auth_provider_hint`.

NOTE: Embedding of any other part of {kib} is also generally possible, but you may need to craft the proper HTML code manually.

> [role="screenshot"]

Reviewer: We typically don't include the global header in the screenshot.

image::images/embed-kibana.png[Generate an HTML snippet to embed {kib}, align=center]

[float]
[[embedding-security]]
=== Configure security

> Embedding through iframes, if used properly, does not directly pose a security risk, but still requires a careful consideration.

Reviewer: Is it worth explaining what some of these considerations are?

Reviewer 2: I'll chime in here -- I think we should reword this. Nothing is zero-risk, and this statement could be misinterpreted. How about this?

```suggestion
Embedding content through iframes requires careful consideration to minimize security risks. By default, modern web browsers enforce the
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy[same-origin policy] to restrict the behavior of framed pages. When
{stack-security-features} are enabled on your cluster, you must relax this constraint for cookies as described below for {kib} to function
in an iframe. See https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe[iframe] and
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite[SameSite] documentation for more information.
```

Note that we have a few links to MDN docs here, which there is precedent for in some other docs.

Author: > Note that we have a few links to MDN docs here, which there is precedent for in some other docs.

MDN is the well-known and trusted source of such information, I assume it should be fine. @gchaps do you have any concerns?

[float]
==== Authentication

> If you're embedding {kib} to the website that supports Single Sign-On with SAML, OpenID Connect, Kerberos or PKI it's highly advisable to configure {kib} as a part of this Single Sign-On setup as well. Operating within a single and properly configured security domain would provide you with the most secure and seamless user experience. You can read more at <<kibana-authentication, Authentication in {kib}>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're embedding {kib} in a website that supports Single Sign-On with SAML, OpenID Connect, Kerberos, or PKI, it's highly advisable to configure {kib} as a part of the Single Sign-On setup. Operating in a single and properly configured security domain provides you with the most secure and seamless user experience. You can read more at <<kibana-authentication, Authentication in {kib}>>.
```

> If you want anyone to access embedded {kib} skipping the login step, but the Single Sign-On isn't an option for you, consider configuring the <<anonymous-authentication, anonymous access>> instead. It is already natively integrated into the embedding workflow for the dashboards and visualizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want users to access embedded {kib} by skipping the login step, and Single Sign-On isn't an option for you, consider configuring <<anonymous-authentication, anonymous access>>. It is already natively integrated into the embedded workflow for the dashboards and visualizations.
```

Author: > It is already natively integrated into the **embedded workflow** for the dashboards and visualizations.

I was trying to say `the workflow for embedding of the dashboards and visualizations`, @gchaps would `embedded workflow` be the right expression here? To my non-native ear it sounds like a workflow is embedded into something :see_no_evil:

Reviewer: I like how you said it here. Does this work?

> It is already natively integrated into the workflow for embedding dashboards and visualizations.

Author: Yep, this works, thanks!

> If you have multiple authentication providers enabled, and you want to automatically log in anonymous users when embedding anything other than dashboards and visualizations, then you will need to add the `auth_provider_hint=<anonymous-provider-name>` query string parameter to the {kib} URL that you're embedding.

Reviewer: anything other > objects other than?

Author: I was thinking about things like monitoring application, or discover, or live logs - not necessarily a Saved Object, but rather any other part of the Kibana.

Reviewer: sounds good as is.

> For example, if you craft the iframe code to embed {kib}, it may look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you craft the iframe code to embed {kib}, it might look like this:
```

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/monitoring#/elasticsearch/nodes?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

To make this iframe leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in the `src` iframe attribute to look like this:

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/monitoring?auth_provider_hint=anonymous1#/elasticsearch/nodes?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

> Note that `auth_provider_hint` query string parameter goes *before* the hash URL fragment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `auth_provider_hint` query string parameter goes *before* the hash URL fragment.
```

[float]
==== Cookies

> Irrespective to the authentication type you're going to use for the embedded {kib} you need to make sure that browsers can transmit session cookies to a {kib} server. The setting you need to be aware of is <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, `xpack.security.sameSiteCookies`>>, and to support modern browsers, you might need to set it to `None`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of the authentication type that you're using for the embedded {kib}, you must make sure that the browsers can transmit session cookies to a {kib} server. The setting you need to be aware of is <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, `xpack.security.sameSiteCookies`>>. To support modern browsers, you must set it to `None`:
```

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.security.sameSiteCookies: "None"
--

> You can find more information about possible values and implications <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, here>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about possible values and implications, go to <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, xpack.security.sameSiteCookies >>.
```

[[embedding]]

> == Embedding {kib}

Reviewer: Embedding {kib} content in a web page?

Reviewer 3: This page looks very useful! Why is it organized as part of setup instead of being part of dashboards?

Author: > Embedding {kib} content in a web page?

Yeah, sounds good, thanks.

> This page looks very useful! Why is it organized as part of setup instead of being part of dashboards?

Basically setup was the only existing top-level section that can potentially cover all parts of Kibana. The idea was to eventually describe everything that can be embedded in one way or another: dashboards, visualizations, canvas, or any random part of Kibana that can technically be embedded (we know people do this).

Reviewer: We are planning on creating a Share section in the documentation.  Would this doc be a good candidate for that?

Author: Yes, I think so.

Once you create a dashboard, or a visualization you surely might want to share it with your colleagues or friends at some point. The easiest way to do that is to share a direct link to your dashboard or visualization, but not everyone might have access to your {kib} or even know what {kib} is. Moreover, sometimes you might want to give more context to the thing you're sharing, for example, attach analysis, or images, or links, and {kib} isn't always the best tool for this type of job.

> If you have an internal company website or just a personal webpage where it'd make more sense to display the content you created in {kib}, then try out the {kib} embedding functionality. You can embed a {kib} dashboard or visualization using an HTML code snippet generated with the *Copy iFrame code* button in the *Share > Embed code* menu in *Dashboard* or *Visualize*.

Reviewer: I like the new content!  Here is a suggestion that moves things around a bit and removed some of the things that felt a little negative.  In the second para, I suggest leading with the Kibana embedding functionality and putting the instructions in the order that that users sees them.  Also, the part about adding context felt more natural here.

> Once you create a dashboard or a visualization, you might want to share it with your colleagues or friends. The easiest way to do this is to share a direct link to your dashboard or visualization.  However, some users might not have access to your {kib}. 

> With the {kib} embedding functionality, you can display the content you created in {kib} to an internal company website or a personal web page.  From *Dashboard* or *Visualize*, open the *Share > Embed code* menu, and then click *Copy iFrame code* to generate an HTML code snippet.  You can embed in this snippet in your web page, and then add analysis, images, and links to give more context to the object you're sharing.

Author: Sounds much better, thanks!

> NOTE: Embedding of any other part of {kib} is also generally possible, but you may need to craft the proper HTML code manually.

Reviewer: Suggest moving this below the image.

image::images/embed-kibana.png[Generate an HTML snippet to embed {kib}, align=center]

[float]
[[embedding-security]]
=== Configure security

Embedding content through iframes requires careful consideration to minimize security risks. By default, modern web browsers enforce the
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy[same-origin policy] to restrict the behavior of framed pages. When

> {stack-security-features} are enabled on your cluster, you must relax this constraint for cookies as described below for {kib} to function

Reviewer: We avoid the word "below" for accessibility reasons.  Can you link to the section?

> in an iframe. See https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe[iframe] and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in an iframe. Refer to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe[iframe] and
```

> https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite[SameSite cookies] documentation for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite[SameSite cookies] for more information.
```

For example, if you craft the iframe code to embed {kib}, it might look like this:

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/monitoring#/elasticsearch/nodes?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

To make this iframe leverage anonymous access automatically, you will need to modify a link to {kib} in the `src` iframe attribute to look like this:

```html
<iframe src="https://localhost:5601/app/monitoring?auth_provider_hint=anonymous1#/elasticsearch/nodes?embed=true&_g=(....)" height="600" width="800"></iframe>
```

Note that the `auth_provider_hint` query string parameter goes *before* the hash URL fragment.

[float]
==== Cookies

Regardless of the authentication type that you're using for the embedded {kib}, you must make sure that the browsers can transmit session cookies to a {kib} server. The setting you need to be aware of is <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, `xpack.security.sameSiteCookies`>>. To support modern browsers, you must set it to `None`:

[source,yaml]
--
xpack.security.sameSiteCookies: "None"
--

> For more information about possible values and implications, go to <<xpack-security-sameSiteCookies, xpack.security.sameSiteCookies >>.

Reviewer: Remove extra space in the link.

[[embedding]]

> == Embedding {kib} content in a web page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Embed {kib} content in a web page
```

Once you create a dashboard or a visualization, you might want to share it with your colleagues or friends. The easiest way to do this is to share a direct link to your dashboard or visualization. However, some users might not have access to your {kib}.

With the {kib} embedding functionality, you can display the content you created in {kib} to an internal company website or a personal web page. From *Dashboard* or *Visualize*, open the *Share > Embed code* menu, and then click *Copy iFrame code* to generate an HTML code snippet. You can embed this snippet in your web page, and then add analysis, images, and links to give more context to the object you're sharing.

image::images/embed-kibana.png[Generate an HTML snippet to embed {kib}, align=center]

> NOTE: Embedding of any other part of {kib} is also generally possible, but you may need to craft the proper HTML code manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Embedding of any other part of {kib} is also generally possible, but you might need to craft the proper HTML code manually.
```
